feat: render revealjs presentations in multiple languages (#128)
ropensci-review-tools/babelquarto: vignettes/presentations.qmd

---
title: "Multilingual presentations"
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Multilingual presentations}
  %\VignetteEngine{quarto::html}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

The goal of this vignette is to show how you can create and render a multilingual [revealjs](https://quarto.org/docs/presentations/revealjs/) presentation using {babelquarto}.

Multilingual presentations follow the same convention as books and websites (see `vignette("babelquarto")`): each Quarto file exists once per language, with the same basename,

- once with only `.qmd` as extension for the main language (`index.qmd`),
- once with the language code in the extension for each further language (`index.es.qmd`, `index.fr.qmd`).

> The difference is that every file declares `format: revealjs`, and that after rendering, each slide deck gets a small fixed button in the top-right corner to switch to the same slide in another language.

Reviewer: does each file need to do that or could one specify the format in the quarto configuration?

You can change these labels through the `text` field of `languagecodes` in `_quarto.yml`:

```yaml
babelquarto:
  languagecodes:
  - name: es
    text: "Español"
  - name: fr
    text: "Français"
  - name: en
    text: "English"
```

These labels can also be overridden per language through a Quarto profile.
If a `_quarto-es.yml` profile file is present, any `languagecodes` entry it
defines takes precedence over `_quarto.yml` for the Spanish button:

```yaml
babelquarto:
  languagecodes:
  - name: es
    text: "Español (versión completa)"
```

See `vignette("configuration")` for more on profiles.

## Rendering your presentation

When you're ready to render your presentation, use `render_presentation()`:

```{r}
#| label: render_presentation
#| eval: false
babelquarto::render_presentation(file.path(parent_dir, project_dir))
```

We end up with one deck per language in the `_site` folder: the main language at the root, and each further language in its own subfolder (`_site/es`, `_site/fr`).
Every deck contains a button per other language in the top-right corner of the slides.
Clicking a button opens the same slide in the other language.

## Previewing your presentation

> Like for books and websites, you can preview the rendered project with the [{servr} package](https://cran.r-project.org/package=servr):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like for books and websites, you can preview the rendered project with the [{servr} package](https://pkg.yihui.org/servr/):
```
